Bob White,I have a question. Wasn't Ann Romney spectacular on Tuesday night? Ann had some great stories about Mitt. So do I. For 30 years, I have been at Mitt Romney's side when he did extraordinary things. As Mitt says, I'm his "wingman." I was there when Mitt turned around desperate situations; fixed big, broken things; and had a profoundly positive impact on people's lives. Our journey began when Mitt asked a small group of us to help him start an investment firm called Bain Capital. Mitt was absolutely clear what he expected from each of us. We would act with absolute integrity. Mutual respect. True teammates. And we would recognize the profound responsibility we owed to those who had placed their trust in us. Integrity. Respect. Responsibility. Trust. These are not just words to Mitt Romney. These are principles he lives by. He applied them to the way we worked. First, he built the team. Recruited the best people he could find. Reached out for ideas. Encouraged dissent. Fostered real cooperation. Next, he gave us clarity of purpose. Our investors included pension funds, colleges and charities with noble missions. We would invest wisely and treat their money as carefully as our own. We would support entrepreneurs and invest in troubled situations. We would help them grow and make their companies better. We would be held accountable for our performance. And when things went wrong, we would not blame others. Finally, he took decisive action. Mitt never hesitated. He made the tough decisions, coalesced the team, and moved forward. Time and time again, I have seen this decisive leadership. When our old consulting firm was on the verge of collapse, they asked Mitt to come back and help. He answered the call. When many thought the situation was hopeless, Mitt was not deterred. I will never forget when he said: "Bob, 1,000 employees and their families depend on us. We can't let them down." When the obstacles seemed insurmountable and others panicked, Mitt was the calm in the storm. He never lost hope. His confidence gave us confidence. That company not only survived, it thrived. Today Bain & Co. is recognized as one of the best places to work in America. I saw something similar when Mitt was asked to help save the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. When we first realized the magnitude of the financial and management challenges, I was skeptical whether they could be saved. But Mitt never doubted what could be done. He applied the same principles of leadership - and the Olympics became a success story that made America proud. And when Mitt was elected governor of Massachusetts, he asked that I help assemble a team that would serve the public trust and be loyal to his principles. The team accomplished so much because they got Republicans and Democrats to focus on the real problems to achieve real results. So why has Mitt taken on so many challenges? Because he runs toward problems, believes it is important to make a difference, and is determined to always give something back. In every pursuit he feels a sense of responsibility and a commitment to serve. Even though we worked endless hours at Bain Capital, Mitt found time to serve his church and counsel people in need. If someone needed help, Mitt was there. When our partner's daughter went missing in New York, Mitt said, "We can't just stand by and do nothing. We need to go find her." He closed down the entire office, took all of us to New York, and mobilized a search effort. Within days, we found her. And a mom, a dad, and a daughter were reunited. Mitt wanted us to give back too. He inspired the formation of Bain Capital Children's Charity. It not only donated money to worthy children's causes, it got Bain Capital employees actively involved in their communities. Go back and look at every pursuit in Mitt's life. Surrounding him are people who have worked with him over and over again. They trust and respect him. They want to be part of his team. They want to be part of the change. And today we need urgent change in Washington. We need a proven leader with passion and compassion. I've seen Mitt Romney be that leader. He is the right man at the right time to be the next President of these great United States. Thank you!
Cathy McMorris Rodgers,Ladies and gentleman, welcome to the final evening of the 2012 National Convention. We have had a wonderful few days, hearing the inspiring stories of Republicans from across the country. From some of our party's great leaders like Governor Jeb Bush, who we just heard from, to every day men and women working hard to survive in the Obama economy, they've told us how we can do better. They've reminded us that we built it, and we learned about how under the Romney-Ryan administration we can change it. Of course, tonight is the main event. Tonight we will hear from the next president of the United States, Mitt Romney. And we have chosen him because we believe in America. We believe in an America that doesn't punish success, but celebrates it. An America that encourages hard work and individual responsibility. And we believe in an America where every child has the chance to succeed. Tonight we'll hear from some of the people who know Mitt Romney best. In their words and from their stories we will learn why he is the right man to defeat Barack Obama this November, and restore America to greatness. We'll hear from dear family friends whose lives have been touched by the Romneys' faith and generosity. We'll hear from two former colleagues who worked alongside Mitt when he was Governor of Massachusetts. You'll hear from the CEO of Staples, a successful company that Mitt Romney helped create and expand during his time at Bain Capital. We're delighted to have a number of former Olympians with us tonight, to remind us of the great comeback that Mitt Romney engineered at the Salt Lake City Olympics. And we are excited that Florida Senator Marco Rubio is here to share his personal story and vision for a future where everyone can still capture the American dream. To get the next portion of our evening started, I would like to welcome to the stage, Grant Bennett, President of CPS Technologies and friend of Mitt Romney.
Cathy McMorris Rodgers 2,Good evening. While we gather here tonight for the second night of the GOP Convention in Tampa, we'd like to pause to acknowledge those along the Gulf Coast impacted by Hurricane Isaac. While it's now been downgraded to a tropical storm, our hearts and our prayers remain with them. And we pledge to help them recover and rebuild. To find out more about how you can help those affected by Hurricane Isaac, please visit: www.RedCross.Org\give. Tonight we have a terrific line-up for you. Our theme tonight is, "We can change it." We have heard of the challenges America is facing; now let's talk about the solutions. Those of you here in the convention, and those of you watching at home, know what needs to be done: --We need to create more jobs and get our economy moving again. --We need to make college affordable and within the reach of every child. I was the first in my family to graduate from college, so I know how important that is to the American Dream. --We need a government that works for us, not against us, and lives within its means (just like you and I do). --We also need a president who shares these ideas and values. Our current president has a different philosophy. For every problem, he has the same solution: more taxes, more spending and more government. We know how those policies have turned out: more unemployment, more poverty, and more debt. Friends, we know we can do better - we can change it. And tonight's program is filled with people who will tell us how. Senator John Thune will talk to us about how small businesses - like the one I ran with my family in Washington state - are the fuel our economy needs. Senator Rob Portman will talk to us about the vital role of international trade in jump-starting our economy. Governor Tim Pawlenty will share with us why he believes Mitt Romney is the man who can get the job done. We're so pleased that Mike Huckabee will be with us. We look forward to hearing his candid assessments as one of America's favorite former governors. And former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will talk about America's role on the world stage - and how our current economic situation impacts our ability to lead. New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez will talk about how she became the first female Hispanic governor in American history - and how she hopes to break down barriers for other young women. And finally, our keynote speaker is a man with the courage of his convictions, who is not afraid to tackle the tough questions facing our country, the next vice president of the United States, Paul Ryan. So let's start by talking about one of the first things that will change under Mitt Romney - Obamacare. Join me in welcoming Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens.
Connie Mack,Once again, it's morning in America. There are new leaders on the horizon - Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan - America's comeback team. Growing up, I had a plaque on my wall that read: "Life's battles don't always go to the fastest or the strongest, sooner or later those who win are those who think they can." We've always been a people with big dreams and limitless potential. After all, this is America. Our success is built on our values and our principles, but so many of them are under attack. Our commitment to freedom and liberty, and to everything that makes our country great, seems to embarrass the blame-America-first crowd. They penalize individual achievement while praising the power of government. But they have not, cannot and will not destroy our spirit. We are proud to be Americans. We are proud of our nation, of our heritage and of our success. And it is our commitment to the American story. It's our athletes in London who brought home more medals than any other country. It's our best and brightest who landed an extraordinary rover on Mars. It's the Nobel Prize winners, scientists, writers and artists, second-to-none, who inspire us all. These are the achievements that are brought about by a free society that honors individual effort. We owe it to those who have given so much to regain our strength, and remain one of the strongest forces for freedom the world has ever seen. Our allies deserve our unwavering support and our enemies need to know, we stand to defend freedom at all costs. America was built on the belief in free enterprise, hard work, passion and faith. We have the awesome responsibility to make that dream a reality. That dream is not an impossible dream. It's the American dream. It's sure, it's strong and it's steady. Mitt Romney's plans to restore America's promise and purpose will be realized and the American dream will once again be available to all her children. We are a nation of dreamers - Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, Alexander Graham Bell, the Wright brothers. Dreamers like Neil Armstrong who sought new lands and took giant leaps into American exceptionalism. And dreamers like my friend, Kiko Villiaon. You know the story of the others; now let me tell you the story of Kiko. In 1960, Kiko fled Castro's Cuba. He came to New York. He became a taxi driver. He worked hard and saved his money. He became a citizen. He moved to Florida. He started a business building boats. He raised a family. He put his children through school. He sold his business. Now he worries about what opportunities lie ahead for his children and their children. Kiko has lived the American dream, as have so many others. That's what this election is all about - making the American dream a reality again. It's not about the past. It's not about what was done wrong. It's not about blaming America. It's quite the opposite. Tonight we embark on a renewal of the American dream. Tonight we honor those who have come before us and done so much. Many even giving their lives. And tonight we honor our children and their children to ensure their dreams - whether it's playing under the lights, or starting a business, or being a doctor or a nurse, or a soldier or a sailor, or even a president or a vice president - dreams can become realities. After all, this is America. And it's morning once again. Thank you, God bless the United States of America.
Craig Romney,I am honored and humbled to speak with you tonight. I am incredibly proud of my father, and love him dearly. It is my privilege to say a few words in Spanish, so please bear with me for a moment. Buenas Noches. Es un placer estar con ustedes. Yo pase dos años viviendo y trabajando en Chile. A través de esa experiencia, pude valorar aún mas como hispanos han aportado a la diversa riqueza de los Estados Unidos. Mi padre - Mitt Romney - es un hombre de familia. Él es un gran esposo, padre y abuelo. Él sabe como unir a nuestro país y valora que somos una nación de inmigrantes, unidos en el deseo de lograr el sueno americano. El ama a nuestra nación. El luchará para confrontar los retos que tenemos y restaurar la grandeza de los Estados Unidos. It's easy to forget that the story of my father's success begins with the story of two immigrants - my grandfathers - who came to this country with little more than hope in the opportunity of America. Through their hard work and perseverance they lived the American dream, and gave opportunities to their children they wouldn't have had anywhere else. The Republican Party is dedicated to preserving that opportunity for all Americans. We've had the privilege of hearing about different chapters of this same inspiring American story from Governors Sandoval and Martinez and soon-to-be-Senator Cruz. We're seeing this story play out in the lives of many other Hispanic Americans who have become leaders in the Republican Party and throughout our nation. These leaders, along with Hispanics across the country, will play a vital role in the RomneyRyan comeback, as we fight to put America back on the path to prosperity. Thank you.
Grant Bennett,I have spent thousands of hours over many years with Mitt Romney. We spent our time together serving our fellow men and women - we spent it serving in our church. We embraced Christ's admonition: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has an unpaid, lay clergy. While raising his family and pursuing his career, Mitt Romney served in our church, devoting 10, 15, even 20 hours a week doing so. Like all Mormon leaders, he did so on his own time and at his own expense. I was an assistant to Mitt when he was our pastor. As we began working together, Mitt asked, "How early can I call you in the morning?" I said 6 a.m. I regret my answer - for several years, Mitt became my alarm clock. A typical morning call: "Grant, it's Mitt. I'm at the airport. Hazel Young tripped last night and bruised her hip -- please visit her this evening and give her my love; I'll arrange for meals and I will visit her on my way home from the airport tomorrow." In our early morning calls, Mitt didn't discuss questions of theology. He found the definition of religion given by James in the New Testament to be a practical guide: "Pure religion ... is to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction." So, what specifically did Mitt Romney do as our pastor? For one or two evenings each week and several hours every weekend -- week after week and year after year -- he met with those seeking help with the burdens of real life, burdens we all face at one time or another: unemployment, sickness, financial distress, loneliness. Mitt prayed with and counseled church members seeking spiritual direction, single mothers raising children, couples with marital problems, youth with addictions, immigrants separated from their families, and individuals whose heat had been shut off. To uphold the dignity -- and respect the privacy -- of those who came, he met with them in private and in confidence. He has upheld that trust. Mitt's response to those who came was compassion in all its beautiful varieties: He had a listening ear and a helping hand. Drawing on the skills and resources of those in our congregation, Mitt provided food and housing, rides to the doctor and companions to sit with those who were ill. He shoveled snow and raked leaves for the elderly; he took down tables and swept the floors at church dinners. Years later, I became the pastor. Only then did I understand the dedication this calling requires -and the clarity this service provides into the full range of our shared human experience. Mitt challenged each of us to find our life by losing it in service to others. He issued that challenge again and again. The church itself was a marvelous vehicle for extending that challenge. Mitt seldom delivered the sermon himself - he gave that opportunity to fellow church members. He sought to involve everyone so everyone could grow. Mitt taught faith in God, personal integrity, self-reliance and service to our fellow men. And Mitt did what he challenged us to do. He led by example. I treasure every minute we served together. I am grateful for my apprenticeship in "the things that matter most" under the hands of a deeply good man named Mitt Romney. Now it is my privilege to introduce two families from our congregation. First, Pat and Ted Oparowski. They will be followed by Pam Finlayson.
Jane Edmonds,Thank you for the warm welcome. I am honored to be here with you tonight to share my feelings about Mitt Romney. By way of background, my politics is as a liberal Democrat. My passion is about education, workforce training, and leadership. When I first met Governor Romney, I was struck by his humanity, his grace, his kind manner. It was just the two of us, in his office when I met him, as a finalist for a cabinet position in his Administration. I could tell immediately, just by our interaction, that he is the real thing -- authentic. He struck me then -- and now -- as honest, transparent and inclusive. I somehow knew, during that meeting, that he is demanding of himself and that he would be demanding of anyone who is a part of his Administration. I wanted to be around him, and in that kind of environment, where my energy, skills, and talent could be channeled - along with others - toward the public good. I could tell by our conversation that the Governor was in office not for himself or to promote himself, but for the people. My initial size-up of the man held true. During the 4 years I served in his cabinet, I saw him up close and personal many times, and he always drove us in his Administration to make government better for the people. One area where he made a positive difference is in improving the representation of women in senior positions in Massachusetts State Government. Before Governor Romney took office in 2003, women were significantly underrepresented among top roles in government, with 52% of the population but just 30% of the jobs. Over the next two and a half years, 42% of the new appointments made by Governor Romney were women. In fact, based on a survey by the State University of New York, Massachusetts was ranked first in percentage of women holding top state positions. This led the Boston Globe to note, "Women fill 10 of 20 top positions in Governor Mitt Romney's administration, making the Commonwealth one of five states that come close to matching the percentage of top women appointees to the proportion of women in the overall population. This achievement happened because Mitt Romney cared about the issue, he took action to fix it and he delivered results! He is unquestionably an amazing steward and leader, a servant leader and someone whom I respect very much. That's the kind of leadership that has always inspired me. Unselfish leadership! The late Stephen Covey writes about 2 kinds of people: one type is all about themselves and their success. The other type works as hard as they can - and certainly succeeds, but their success is motivated by doing good for others. That's how I see Governor Romney. He is authentic. He is open to good ideas wherever they come from. It doesn't matter if they are from a liberal Democrat like me. He'll listen and he's inclusive. As a great leader, he brought out the best in me and I know, as President, he will bring out the best in our country! Thank you.
Jeb Bush Sean Duffy and Frantz Placide,Welcome to Florida! Bienvenido a Florida! This election is about the future of this nation. We can shape that future with what we do here, with what we do November 6. We can restore America's greatness. That starts with a strong economy, a smart energy policy, lower deficits, and a president who puts America's workers and job-creators first. But to have a great future - a secure future - a future that is equal to our potential as a nation, we need to do something else. We must make sure that our children and grandchildren are ready for the world we are shaping today. It starts in our homes, in our communities, and especially in our schools. As a candidate and Governor, I visited over 400 schools. I saw children read their first sentences. Solve their first long-division problems. Explore the miracles of chemistry and physics. That's the essence of education - students getting a chance at a future. There are many reasons to believe America's future is bright, but also reasons to worry. Of 34 advanced nations in the world, American students rank 17th in science, 25th in math. Only one-fourth of high school graduates are ready for their next steps. China and India produce eight times more engineering students each year than the United States. There is a moral cost to our failing schools. We say that every child in America has an equal opportunity. Tell that to a kid in whose classroom learning isn't respected. Tell that to a parent stuck in a school where there is no leadership. Tell that to a young, talented teacher who just got laid off because she didn't have tenure. The sad truth is that equality of opportunity doesn't exist in many of our schools. We give some kids a chance, but not all. That failure is the great moral and economic issue of our time. And it's hurting all of America. I believe we can meet this challenge. We need to set high standards for students and teachers and provide students and their parents the choices they deserve. The first step is a simple one. We must stop pre-judging children based on their race, ethnicity or household income. We must stop excusing failure in our schools and start rewarding improvement and success. We must have high academic standards that are benchmarked to the best in the world. All kids can learn. Governor Romney believes it, and the data proves it. While he was governor, Massachusetts raised standards and today their students lead the nation in academic performance. Here in Florida in 1999, we were at the bottom of the nation in education. For the last decade, this state has been on a path of reform. Under the leadership of Governor Rick Scott and local leaders, our focus every day is whether students are learning. That's it. Today, more students are reading on grade level, passing rigorous college prep courses and graduating from high school. And perhaps most exciting, those traditionally left behind are showing the greatest gains. Among African-American students, Florida is ranked fourth in the nation for academic improvement. Among low-income students, we're ranked third for our gains. Among students with disabilities, we're ranked first. And among Latino students, the gains were so big, they required a new metric. Right now, Florida's fourth grade Hispanic students read as well or better than the average of all students in 21 states and the District of Columbia. These kids were once written off. But today thanks to teachers like Sean Duffy we're changing that. I'm honored to be an educator, to help the next generation of leaders, thinkers, builders, and entrepreneurs. Sadly, I'm part of a dwindling field. I've seen too many good teachers come and go, mainly due to poor working conditions and little pay. Bad teachers get locked into the system and good teachers leave for more money. On top of the bureaucratic challenges, what we're teaching doesn't always match what our students need. To that end, I launched a STEM lab at my high school. These labs focus on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics and help students learn proficiency in these fields. We turn students away from education each year by not providing a robust curriculum that keeps up with the world in which these students live - and will eventually work. And at the end of the day, all of what we do from the educators to the policy makers has to be student-focused and student-centered. Students matter most. Thanks, Sean. I know Del Valle High School is proud of your efforts. We need more great teachers like you. Teachers who don't give up on a kid, who recognize that every child can learn, and don't waste a precious year of a student's life. If you're a great teacher and your students are mastering their subjects, no matter your age or years of experience, you should have a job. Education is hard work, but if you follow some core principles, and you challenge the status quo, you get great results. So here's another thing we can do: Let's give every parent in America a choice about where their child attends school. Everywhere in our lives, we get the chance to choose. Go down any supermarket aisle - you'll find an incredible selection of milk. You can get whole milk, 2% milk, low-fat milk or skim milk. Organic milk, and milk with extra Vitamin D. There's flavored milk-- chocolate, strawberry or vanilla - and it doesn't even taste like milk. They even make milk for people who can't drink milk. Shouldn't parents have that kind of choice in schools? Governor Romney gets it. He believes parents - regardless of zip code or income - should be able to send their child to the school that fits them best. That has set him against some entrenched interests. There are many people who say they support strong schools but draw the line at school choice. "Sorry, kid. Giving you equal opportunity would be too risky. And it will upset powerful political forces that we need to win elections." I have a simple message for these masters of delay and deferral: Choose. You can either help the politically powerful unions. Or you can help the kids. Now, I know it's hard to take on the unions. They fund campaigns. They're well-organized. Election day? They'll show up. Meanwhile, the kids aren't old enough to vote. But you and I know who deserves a choice. Governor Romney knows it, too. Let me introduce you to Frantz Placide. Because we gave him a choice, he got a great education. I grew up in the inner city of Miami. In a place where your zip code determined your chances of success, my only option was an unproductive and failing school. I knew that could lead to an unproductive and failing future. Thanks to Governor Bush's school choice program, I got the chance to choose a better school. Making my education my priority, I enrolled at one of the toughest private schools in Miami Archbishop Curley Notre Dame. I'm sure like a lot of us, it was my mother, Carlette, who really pushed for a choice in my education. I'm glad she did. Her devotion to my future has given me a chance to succeed. I've graduated from Wagner College, and am looking forward to a life of learning, and serving my community. Who knows what the future would have held, if there hadn't been a choice in my education? But I do know the numbers for failure, and I probably wouldn't have had a very good chance. Governor Bush's school choice program gave me the chance to achieve academic success, in the school that was the best fit for me. I took it from there. Thank you Frantz, it's been an honor to see you grow up. Your story is driving powerful change across this nation. And some of the biggest reformers are Republicans. Governor Mitch Daniels in Indiana and Governor Jindal in Louisiana have expanded school choice beyond what we have in Florida. Governor Martinez in New Mexico is raising expectations - holding schools accountable for students gaining critical reading skills. Governor LePage in Maine and Deal in Georgia are transforming education by pushing schools to harness the power of technology and digital learning. Idaho's Governor Otter and Superintendent Luna are raising up the best teachers and separating out the ineffective ones. That earned some enemies. Some of them slashed the superintendent's tires. But he didn't back down. Governor Walker in Wisconsin led his state to adopt reforms that promote early literacy and require that teacher evaluations incorporate student achievement. In Nevada, Governor Sandoval pushed for reforms to end the damaging practice of "last in, first out" - where teachers are hired or fired based on their years in the system, not on their impact in the classroom. Governor Haslam in Tennessee is making sure every classroom has an effective teacher. Because he is a former governor, Mitt Romney understands that states must lead this national movement. In Massachusetts, Governor Romney narrowed the gap between students of different races, raised testing standards, and put into place a merit scholarship, the John and Abigail Adams Scholarship that gives students four tuition free years, at any Massachusetts public institution of higher learning. He's a champion for bringing hope to education. And he intends to be a champion for equality of opportunity, a president who always puts students first. So in this election, remember this: Our future as a nation is at stake. Fact is, this election is not about just one office. It is about one nation. If we want to continue to be the greatest nation on the planet, we must give our kids what we promise them: An equal opportunity. That starts in the classroom. It starts in our communities. It starts where you live. And it starts with electing Mitt Romney the next President of the United States. Thank you. God bless you, God bless our excellent teachers and God bless the United States of America.
John McCain,Thank you. It's an honor, as always, my fellow Republicans, to join you at our national convention, and add my voice to yours as we nominate the next president of the United States, my friend, Governor Mitt Romney. I had hopes once of addressing you under different circumstances. But our fellow Americans had another plan four years ago, and I accept their decision. I've been blessed for so long to play a role in our nation's affairs that I'm conscious only of the debt I owe America, and I thank you for the honor. When we nominate Mitt Romney, we do so with a greater purpose than winning an advantage for our party. We charge him with the care of a higher cause. His election represents our best hopes for our country and the world. It is said this election will turn on domestic and economic issues. But what Mitt Romney knows, and what we know, is that our success at home also depends on our leadership in the world. It is our willingness to shape world events for the better that has kept us safe, increased our prosperity, preserved our liberty and transformed human history. At our best, America has led. We have led by our example, as a shining city on a hill. We have led at the direction of patriots from both parties. We have led, shoulder to shoulder, with steadfast friends and allies. We have led by giving voice to the voiceless, insisting that every human life has dignity and aiding those brave souls who risk everything to secure the inalienable rights that are endowed to all by our Creator. We have led with generous hearts, moved by an abiding love of justice, to help others eradicate disease, lift themselves from poverty, live under laws of their own making and determine their own destinies. We have led, when necessary, with the armed might of freedom's defenders. And always we have led from the front, never from behind. This is what makes America an exceptional nation: It is not just a matter of who we are, it is the record of what we have done. It is the responsibility that generation after generation of Americans has affirmed and carried forward. It is the cause that many Americans have sacrificed everything -- absolutely everything -- to defend. And when they have gone into battle, as they do today, they have done so with the conviction that the country that sent them there is worth their sacrifice, that it stands for something more than the sum of our individual interests. May God bless all who have served, and all who serve today, as He has blessed us with their service. We are now being tested by an array of threats that are more complex, more numerous and just as deadly as any I can recall in my lifetime. We face a consequential choice -- and make no mistake, it is a choice. We can choose to follow a declining path, toward a future that is dimmer and more dangerous than our past. Or we can choose to reform our failing government, revitalize our ailing economy and renew the foundations of our power and leadership in the world. That is what's at stake in this election. Unfortunately, for four years, we've drifted away from our proudest traditions of global leadership -- traditions that are truly bipartisan. We've let the challenges we face, both at home and abroad, become harder to solve. We can't afford to stay on that course any longer. We can't afford to cause our friends and allies -- from Latin America to Asia, Europe to the Middle East, and especially in Israel, a nation under existential threat -- to doubt America's leadership. We can't afford to give governments in Russia and China a veto over how we defend our interests and the progress of our values in the world. We can't afford to have the security of our nation and those who bravely defend it endangered because their government leaks the secrets of their heroic operations to the media. I believe we can't afford to substitute a political timetable for a military strategy. By committing to withdraw from Afghanistan before peace can be achieved and sustained, the president has discouraged our friends and emboldened our enemies, which is why our commanders did not recommend that decision and why they have said it puts our mission at greater risk. We can't afford another $500 billion in cuts to our defense budget -- on top of the nearly $500 billion in cuts that the president is already making. His own secretary of defense has said that cutting our military by nearly $1 trillion would be "devastating." And yet, the president is playing no leadership role in preventing this crippling blow to our military. A wise congressman from Wisconsin has said, "Our fiscal policy and our foreign policy are on a collision course." And that man is our next vice president, Paul Ryan. But most of all, we can't afford to abandon the cause of human freedom. When long-suffering peoples demand liberation from their jailers and torturers and tyrants, the leader of the free world must stand with them. Unfortunately, this is not happening. When Iranians rose up by the millions against their oppressive rulers, when they beseeched our president, chanting in English, "Are you with us, or are you with them?", when the entire world watched as a brave young woman named Neda was shot and bled to death in a street in Tehran. The president missed a historic opportunity to throw America's full moral support behind an Iranian revolution that shared one of our highest interests: ridding Iran of a brutal dictatorship that terrorizes the Middle East and threatens the world. The situation is far worse in Syria. What began as peaceful protests has now become, 18 months later, a savage and unfair fight. With the full backing of Iran, and Hezbollah, and Russia--with tanks, and helicopters, and fighter jets, Bashir Assad is murdering men, women and children. More than 20,000 people have perished. Extremists are gaining ground. And the conflict is becoming more dangerous by the day for our allies, and for us. In other times, when other courageous people fought for their freedom against sworn enemies of the United States, American presidents -- both Republicans and Democrats -- have acted to help them prevail. Sadly, for the lonely voices of dissent in Syria, and Iran, and elsewhere, who feel forgotten in their darkness, and sadly for us, as well, our president is not being true to our values. For the sake of the cause of freedom, for the sake of people who are willing to give their lives so their fellow citizens can determine their own futures and for the sake of our nation -- the nation founded on the idea that all people, everywhere, have the right to freedom and justice -- we must return to our best traditions of American leadership, and support those who face down the brutal tyranny of their oppressors and our enemies. Across the world, people are seizing control of their own destinies. They are liberating themselves from oppressive rulers. And they want America's support. They want America's assistance as they struggle to live in peace and security, to expand opportunity for themselves and their children, to replace the injustices of despots with the institutions of democracy and freedom. America must be on the right side of history. The demand for our leadership in the world has never been greater. People don't want less of America. They want more. Everywhere I go in the world, people tell me they still have faith in America. What they want to know is whether we still have faith in ourselves. I trust that Mitt Romney has that faith, and I trust him to lead us. I trust him to affirm our nation's exceptional character and responsibilities. I trust him to know that our security and economic interests are inextricably tied to the progress of our values. I trust him to know that if America doesn't lead, our adversaries will, and the world will grow darker, poorer and much more dangerous. I trust him to know that an American president always, always, always stands up for the rights, and freedoms, and justice of all people. I trust Mitt Romney to know that good can triumph over evil, that justice can vanquish tyranny, that love can conquer hate, that the desire for freedom is eternal and universal, and that America is still the best hope of mankind. And now, my fellow Americans: Let's elect our next commander-in-chief, and the next leader of the free world, my friend, Governor Mitt Romney.
John Thune,Good evening, fellow Republicans. It's no secret that I'm a sports fan. In fact, I get asked all the time if I've ever played basketball with President Obama. The answer is "no," I'm still waiting for that invitation. The next question is, "Do you think you could take him one-on-one?" I say, "I really don't know, I've never seen him play." But I can tell you this. President Obama would be easy to defend, because you know he's always going to go to his left. Like many Americans, I've been blessed by the hard work and sacrifice of those who've come before. Back in 1906, two Norwegian brothers named Nicolai and Matthew Gjelsvik came to this country in search of the American Dream. When they reached the shores of America, the only English words they knew were "apple pie" and "coffee," which evidently they had plenty of on the trip over. The immigration officials at Ellis Island determined that their name "Gjelsvik" - G-J-E-L-S-V-I-K - was too difficult to spell and pronounce, so they asked them to change it. The two brothers picked the name of the farm where they worked in Norway, which was called the Thune Farm. And so Nicolai Gjelsvik became Nick Thune, my grandfather. With their new country and their new name, the two brothers began their new life by working on the railroad. They learned English and saved enough money to start a small hardware store. And yes, Mr. President, they did build it! My grandfather raised three sons. The middle son, my father, joined the Navy when World War II broke out. He became a naval aviator, flying combat missions off the aircraft carrier Intrepid in the Pacific theatre. On one mission, he shot down four enemy aircraft, for which he received the Distinguished Flying Cross. After the war, my dad quietly returned to South Dakota, his hardware store and his family. Many versions of that story are told across this country. The details may be different - but the dream is the same. I hate to say it, but that dream is in serious jeopardy. We have a sluggish economy, burdened by Obama administration policies that are weighing down our job creators. Middle-class Americans, in cities and on farms, are bearing the brunt. The big-government bureaucrats of the Obama administration have set their sights on our way of life. Instead of preserving family farms and ranches, President Obama's policies are effectively regulating them out of business. His administration even proposed banning farm kids from doing basic chores! Since President Obama took office, we've had 42 consecutive months of unemployment above 8 percent - the longest streak on record. The cost of family health insurance premiums has risen by nearly 19 percent, college tuition has increased by 25 percent and fuel costs have doubled. The number of people on food stamps has increased by 45 percent, and the debt we're piling on the backs of our children and grandchildren has gone up by 50 percent. Yet for all President Obama's talk about the middle class, middle-class incomes are down. Folks, we won't be in this situation with Mitt Romney in the White House. He understands what it takes for businesses large and small to thrive. This knowledge doesn't come from a textbook (although he's read plenty of those). It comes from decades of rolling up his sleeves and getting the job done. It comes from recognizing the strengths and contributions of every individual. His experience tells him that the most valuable insight can be gained - not by lecturing - but by listening. And when he does use his presidential bully pulpit, it will be to champion the cause of small business and make it clear to all companies that it is safe to hire again. On Day One of Mitt Romney's presidency, the transformation of Washington will begin. Gone will be the arrogance of a president whose first instinct is to condemn achievement. Gone will be the attitude that government knows best and solves all. What you will see and hear is a president who will do everything in his power to make sure government is a catalyst for growth, not an obstacle to success. And, a president with a plan to strengthen the middle class. May it never be said of us that when confronted with the economic peril before us, we averted our eyes, turned away and did nothing. Our children's future depends on our willingness to act and our decision to elect Mitt Romney president of the United States. May God continue to bless the United States of America.
Kerry Healey,Ten years ago, as chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party, I flew to Salt Lake City -not to see the Olympics, but to meet the man who had saved them. I had a message from the grassroots: "Come back to Massachusetts. Our state needs you!" Mitt Romney had turned around companies and he had turned around the Olympics. Now Massachusetts needed Mitt Romney to turn us around. Massachusetts was in deep trouble. We had a massive budget gap and soaring unemployment. People in my state were losing hope -- for themselves, their families and their children. Sadly, very much like our country finds itself today. Mitt Romney answered the call of service and accepted the challenge. How did he fix our state? Well, he quickly assembled a cabinet of the best and the brightest, drawing on both parties, Republicans and Democrats, half women, half men, to give him the full spectrum of ideas and advice. He respected different opinions, valued open debate, and when it was all said and done, Mitt Romney knew how to make a decision. Governor Romney did what many thought was impossible. He turned around a $3 billion budget gap and created a $2 billion rainy day fund. Even as he worked to streamline government, he made certain to safeguard protections for the elderly, children and the homeless. In education, Governor Romney gave parents more choices, insisted on tough standards for both teachers and students, and Massachusetts schools became the best in the nation. We cleared out regulations on small businesses. We cut taxes 19 times. And, as a result, unemployment dropped to only 4.7 percent. And, unlike President Obama, Governor Romney's economic policies were rewarded with a credit upgrade. Those are the facts and figures, but when people find out that I served as Mitt Romney's lieutenant governor, they always ask me the same question: What's he like? First and foremost, Mitt is a good and honorable man, committed to public service and his country. On the morning he took the oath of office, his first act was to focus public attention on those in need. We served breakfast to homeless veterans -- encouraging volunteerism, and acknowledging the special debt we owe to those who sacrifice for our country. Mitt never took a salary as governor. But he worked harder than anyone I know. Early every morning, before the rest of us arrived, Mitt would meet with his economic secretary. They worked tirelessly -- because for Mitt, creating jobs was his top priority. Mitt was always a hands-on leader. When one of Boston's tunnels collapsed, tragically killing a passenger in her car, Mitt didn't blame others. He dove in and fixed the problem. Mitt immersed himself in the engineering challenges, personally oversaw safety inspections, abolished cronyism and corruption, and restored public confidence. That's the Mitt Romney I know. And he is ready to bring that same work ethic, vision and integrity to the White House. He will never let our children's education be second-best or allow their future prosperity to be mortgaged by today's political cowardice. And he will respect those who build things with their own minds and their own hands. Mitt Romney won't just talk about family values, he will live them. And I'll tell you another thing, Mitt Romney understands that the world is a safer place when our country leads, and he will never apologize for America. He will lead us back to an America we can be proud of -- and ahead to a future where the American dream is alive again, and within every man and woman's reach. Thank you, Mitt Romney, for believing in America. And America, you can believe in Mitt Romney!
Marco Rubio,In 1980, I watched my first Republican convention with my grandfather. He was born to a farming family in rural Cuba. Childhood polio left him permanently disabled. Because he couldn't work the farm, his family sent him to school, and he became the only one in the family who could read. As a boy, I would sit on our porch and listen to his stories about history, politics and baseball while he puffed on one of his three daily Padron cigars. I don't recall everything we talked about, but the one thing I remember, is the one thing he wanted me to never forget. The dreams he had when he was young became impossible to achieve. But there was no limit to how far I could go, because I was an American. For those of us who were born and raised in this country, it's easy to forget how special America is. But my grandfather understood how different America is from the rest of the world, because he knew what life was like outside America. Tonight, you'll hear from another man who understands what makes America exceptional. Mitt Romney knows America's prosperity didn't happen because our government simply spent more. It happened because our people used their own money to open a business. And when they succeed, they hire more people, who then invest or spend their money in the economy, helping others start a business and create jobs. Mitt Romney's success in business is well known. But he's more than that. He's a devoted husband, father and grandfather. A generous member of his community and church. Everywhere he's been, he's volunteered his time and talent to make things better for those around him. We are blessed that soon, he will be the president of the United States. Our problem with President Obama isn't that he's a bad person. By all accounts, he too is a good husband, and a good father -- and thanks to lots of practice, a pretty good golfer. Our problem is he's a bad president. The new slogan for the president's campaign is "Forward." A government that spends $1 trillion more than it takes in. An $800 billion stimulus that created more debt than jobs. A government intervention into health care paid for with higher taxes and cuts to Medicare. Scores of new rules and regulations. These ideas don't move us "Forward," they take us "Backwards." These are tired and old big government ideas. Ideas that people come to America to get away from. Ideas that threaten to make America more like the rest of the world, instead of helping the world become more like America. Under Barack Obama, the only "Change" is that "Hope" has been hard to find. Now millions of Americans are insecure about their future. But instead of inspiring us by reminding us of what makes us special, he divides us against each other. He tells Americans they're worse off because others are better off. That people got rich by making others poor. Hope and Change has become Divide and Conquer. No matter how you feel about President Obama, this election is about your future, not his. And it's not simply a choice between a Democrat and a Republican. It's a choice about what kind of country we want America to be. As we prepare to make this choice, we should remember what made us special. For most of history almost everyone was poor. Power and wealth belonged to only a few. Your rights were whatever your rulers allowed you to have. Your future was determined by your past. If your parents were poor, so would you be. If you were born without opportunities, so were your children. But America was founded on the principle that every person has God-given rights. That power belongs to the people. That government exists to protect our rights and serve our interests. That we shouldn't be trapped in the circumstances of our birth. That we should be free to go as far as our talents and work can take us. We are special because we've been united not by a common race or ethnicity. We're bound together by common values. That family is the most important institution in society. That almighty God is the source of all we have. Special, because we've never made the mistake of believing that we are so smart that we can rely solely on our leaders or our government. Our national motto is "In God we Trust," reminding us that faith in our Creator is the most important American value of all. And special because we've always understood the scriptural admonition that "for everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required." We are a blessed people. And we have honored those blessings with the enduring example of an exceptional America. I know that for so many of you, these last few years have tested your faith in the promise of America. Maybe you are at an age when you thought you would be entering retirement. But now, because your savings and investments are wiped out, your future is uncertain. Maybe, after years of hard work, this was the time you expected to be your prime earning years. But instead, you've been laid off, and your house is worth less than your mortgage. Maybe you did everything you were told you needed to do to get ahead. You studied hard and finished school. But now, you owe thousands of dollars in student loans. You can't find a job in your field. And you've moved back in with your parents. You want to believe we're still that place where anything is possible. But things just don't seem to be getting better. And you are starting to wonder if things will ever be the same again. Yes, we live in a troubled time. But the story of those who came before us reminds us that America has always been about new beginnings. And Mitt Romney is running for president because he knows that if we are willing to do for our children what our parents did for us, life in America can be better than it has ever been. My mother was one of seven girls whose parents went to bed hungry so their children wouldn't. My father lost his mother when he was nine. He left school and went to work for the next 70 years. They emigrated to America with little more than the hope of a better life. My dad was a bartender. My mom was a cashier, a maid and a stock clerk at K-Mart. They never made it big. They were never rich. And yet they were successful. Because just a few decades removed from hopelessness, they made possible for us all the things that had been impossible for them. Many nights I heard my father's keys jingling at the door as he came home after another 16-hour day. Many mornings, I woke up just as my mother got home from the overnight shift at K-Mart When you're young, the meaning of moments like these escapes you. But now, as my own children get older, I understand it better. My Dad used to tell us: "En este pais, ustedes van a poder lograr todas las cosas que nosotros no pudimos" "In this country, you will be able to accomplish all the things we never could." A few years ago during a speech, I noticed a bartender behind a portable bar at the back of the ballroom. I remembered my father who had worked for many years as a banquet bartender. He was grateful for the work he had, but that's not the life he wanted for us. He stood behind a bar in the back of the room all those years, so one day I could stand behind a podium in the front of a room. That journey, from behind that bar to behind this podium, goes to the essence of the American miracle -- that we're exceptional not because we have more rich people here. We're special because dreams that are impossible anywhere else, come true here. That's not just my story. That's your story. That's our story. It's the story of your mother who struggled to give you what she never had. It's the story of your father who worked two jobs so doors closed for him would open for you. The story of that teacher or that coach who taught you the lessons that shaped who you are today. And it's the story of a man who was born into an uncertain future in a foreign country. His family came to America to escape revolution. They struggled through poverty and the great depression. And yet he rose to be an admired businessman, and public servant. And in November, his son, Mitt Romney, will be elected President of the United States. We are all just a generation or two removed from someone who made our future the purpose of their lives. America is the story of everyday people who did extraordinary things. A story woven deep into the fabric of our society. Their stories may never be famous, but in the lives they lived, you find the living essence of America's greatness. To make sure America is still a place where tomorrow is always better than yesterday, that is what our politics should be about. And that is what we are deciding in this election. Do we want our children to inherit our hopes and dreams, or do we want them to inherit our problems? Mitt Romney believes that if we succeed in changing the direction of our country, our children and grandchildren will be the most prosperous generation ever, and their achievements will astonish the world. The story of our time will be written by Americans who haven't yet been born. Let's make sure they write that we did our part. That in the early years of this new century, we lived in an uncertain time. But we did not allow fear to cause us to abandon what made us special. We chose more freedom instead of more government. We chose the principles of our founding to solve the challenges of our time. We chose a special man to lead us in a special time. We chose Mitt Romney to lead our nation. And because we did, the American Miracle lived on for another generation to inherit.
Newt and Callista Gingrich,Thank you for that warm welcome. What a wonderful tribute to President Reagan and the spirit of the American people. It's fantastic to see so many friends here. Friends from decades of service to the party, service in public life and those who have helped us over the past few years. And we're delighted that tonight we come together to once again renew the American spirit and put real leadership back in the White House this November. Callista: The election of Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will decisively move America to a better future. Remembering President Reagan reminds us that the choices we make matter, and this year is as important as the choice we made in 1980. Newt: Over three decades have passed since Ronald Reagan was first elected to the White House, yet the impact of his leadership is still evident today. While in office, President Reagan had three major goals: To restore the economy; to revive the American spirit; and to defeat totalitarianism, spreading democracy throughout the world. Callista: By remaining true to his convictions, through his belief in the American people and with tremendous optimism, President Reagan achieved these goals. Newt: It's striking how President Carter and President Obama both took our nation down a path that in four years weakened America's confidence in itself and our hope for a better future. Callista: Both weakened the respect for America abroad; both increased government programs, filled with waste and inefficiency that failed to produce results; both made promises they couldn't keep; and, as a consequence of ineffective policies, both were unable to revive our economy and create jobs. Newt: For example, both crippled American energy production when there were better ways to develop and use our abundant energy resources. The Romney plan for North American energy independence is exactly the kind of bold, visionary leadership Reagan believed in, and it's what we need now. Callista: The Reagan presidency also teaches us that there is a better way to put Americans back to work, create millions of jobs and help every American achieve success. The Reagan program of tax cuts, regulatory reform and spending controls worked. Newt: Reagan's belief in small business owners and entrepreneurs is a remarkable contrast with Obama's class warfare rhetoric, massive deficits and a passion for taxing those who create jobs. The Romney plan for a stronger middle class has deep roots in Reagan's approach. Callista: Reagan's commitment to reform welfare and to create a work requirement was a major achievement when he was governor of California. His pioneering work led to the historic welfare reform bill Congress and the president passed 30 years later. This bipartisan legislation reduced the size of government, made our country more competitive and put millions of Americans back to work. Newt: Tragically, President Obama gutted this achievement. And, like Jimmy Carter, over four years he produced little effective legislation that brought the two parties together in the interest of the nation. Obama's waiving of the work requirements in welfare reform is just one example of his direct repudiation of President Reagan's values. Obama's proud of what he's done and of his politically motivated partisanship, but he should be ashamed for putting politics before people. Callista: Governor Romney will return America to work, and to the principles that are at the core of President Reagan's legacy. This year the American people will once again have an important choice to make. Newt: Now each of us must commit ourselves in the tradition of Ronald Reagan to come together. President Reagan said, "There is no substitute for victory." And this November, we cannot settle for anything less. This is the most critical election of our lifetime. Each of us must do our part now to ensure that America remains, in the tradition of President Reagan, a land of freedom, hope and opportunity. Thank you and God bless.
Kim Rhode Mike Eruzione and Derek Parra,Thank you. I have had the good fortune--the amazing blessing--to represent this great country, as a proud member of Team USA at the last five Olympic Games, in doubles trap and skeet shooting competitions. I won my first gold medal in Atlanta, in the summer of 1996, and I just returned from the Olympics in London, a few weeks ago with another gold medal. This was one of a record-setting 104 medals won by Team USA, including 58 by women--which is the most ever. I think it's safe to say we showed the world that American women are a force to be reckoned with! I'm honored to share the stage tonight with a handful of Olympic champions. Allow me to introduce them to you: Dan Jansen - An American favorite through four Olympiads and a gold medalist. Andy Gabel - A four-time, short track speed skating Olympian and a silver medal winner. . Rowdy Gaines - An Olympic Hall of Famer, and three-time Olympic gold medal winner. Lea Ann Parsley - A silver medalist in the women's skeleton in 2002. Noelle Pikus Pace - The 2007 skeleton World Champion and 2010 Olympian. Bill Schuffenhaer - A three-time Olympian and an Olympic bobsled silver medalist in 2002. Jimmy Shea - The only third-generation Olympian, winning the gold medal in skeleton in 2002. Jean Racine-Prahm - A two-time World Cup champion bobsledder, and two-time Olympian. Scott Hamilton - An American icon and 1984 gold medalist known for his backflip. Christopher Devlin-Young - An American Paralympic alpine skier who won two Gold medals and two Silver medals. Derek Parra - A gold and silver medalist speed skater in 2002. Mike Eruzione - Captain of the 1980 Winter Olympics U.S. hockey team that defeated the Soviet Union in the famous Miracle on Ice game. From the time when I walked into the Games in Atlanta as a wide-eyed 16-year-old to the moment a few weeks ago, when I heard our national anthem played in London as a seasoned veteran, I've seen our country both prosper and more recently falter. Not unlike my athletic career, there were times when things were going very well, and times when they were not. It was in those times -- when things were difficult -- that I learned to rely on strong leadership to get me--as they say in my world -- back on target. The strong leadership of a more experienced teammate of my coaches and, of course -- most importantly -- the strong leadership of my mom and dad. I came here tonight because I believe that today our country is off-target. We need the leadership of Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan to turn our country around so the millions of Americans who have taken aim at their own dreams -- whatever they may be -- have the opportunity for those dreams to come true just like our Olympic dreams did. We need strong leadership, we need new leadership and we need it now. We are here on stage because we know America needs the leadership of Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan! Thank you and goodnight. Good Evening. I am Mike Eruzione. I am honored to have this opportunity tonight to talk with you about the global significance of the Olympic movement -- its ideals and its meaning - and how it was rescued by Mitt Romney. It has been over 10 years, so many of you may have forgotten, but in 2002, due to bribery scandals and mismanagement, the Olympics -- not just those Games -- but the Olympics as an institution -- were threatened. Thankfully, Mitt Romney was there, to salvage a desperate situation. Mitt's leadership not only turned around those Games by solving the operational and financial problems - but he did something deeper - he drew a line in the sand and said, that the 2002 Games would have the highest standards of ethics and integrity. He put Olympians -- the athletes -- and the ideals of the Olympics back at the center of the Games. He focused on restoring the Olympics to the top pedestal of sports and he preserved the opportunity -- and idealism -- of the Olympics for future generations. I was fortunate to compete in the Olympics as the captain of the 1980 U.S. "Miracle on Ice" hockey team. And that team was proud and honored to light the cauldron for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. That action, of passing along the flame of the Olympic spirit symbolizes something grander than all of us. It is the single greatest movement that brings all humans -- across the world -- together. We are all fortunate that Mitt Romney kept that fire burning! As a result of the 2002 Olympics, I had the opportunity to get to know Mitt and Ann Romney and to see what they have accomplished. Mitt is a brilliant leader who is committed to the highest ideals and he is a wonderful and caring family man. Just like the Olympics needed Mitt's leadership 10 years ago, America desperately needs Mitt Romney's leadership today. Please join me in making him the next President of the United States! Thank you. I am Derek Parra. I'm a 5'4" Mexican-American from Southern California. Those are just three reasons it didn't add up for me to have ever become a Winter Olympic champion. But somehow, from inside a Roller Rink as a teenager, a dream grew within my heart that, someday maybe I could represent my country at the Olympic Games. And I chased that dream for over 20 years and eventually, it led me to Salt Lake City. With great effort and the help of some amazing people along the way, I had become one of the top speed skaters in the world and the finish line was in sight! But as the Olympics appeared on the horizon, that dream was almost derailed. The Olympics were mired in scandal and budget deficit and, even worse, the national tragedy of September 11th that shook our entire nation to its very core. It was a time of uncertainty. But in my Olympic world, Mitt Romney was at the helm. His vision and commitment got the Games back on track and gave me the opportunity to realize my athletic dream. Not only did Mitt facilitate my dream in 2002, he facilitated the dreams of athletes from around the world. At that time I had only met Mitt briefly, but after the Olympics I got to know him and for a period of time I lived with him and his family. I know Mitt and know him well. I know him as a businessman and as a leader. I know him as a father and as a very, very busy grandfather. And I'm proud to say I know him as a friend. Now, you might think my greatest Olympic moment came when I stood on the podium for the first time, with a gold medal around my neck. But you'd be wrong. In fact, my most powerful Olympic memory came before the Olympics even got started! It's a story I've heard Mitt reference a number of times on the campaign trail, so I would like to share it with you now, firsthand. February 8th, 2002, was a cold, but clear night in Salt Lake City. It was the night of the Opening Ceremonies. I was competing the very next morning so I was not planning to attend. That is, until I got a call from the U.S. Olympic Committee just hours before the ceremony asking me if I would be one of the eight athletes selected to carry the World Trade Center flag into the Opening Ceremonies. I was floored. Instantly, I knew this was something I had to do. Something I wanted to do. It was an honor beyond anything I could have ever imagined. While it's now just over 10 years later, at that time, our country was still reeling from the wounds, the trauma and the pain of September 11th. As the Opening Ceremonies got under way, the other flag-bearing athletes and I gathered backstage. We were standing with the Port Authority Officers, whose job it was to oversee the flag. They began telling us how proud they were of us - that the families of the victims were proud of us - that all the people who'd lost their lives would be proud of us. When it came time to begin the procession, I touched the flag for the first time, and I remember a physical sensation unlike anything I had ever experienced. If it's possible to feel your soul being touched, then that is what I felt. As we carried the flag out before the capacity crowd and a worldwide television audience, the silence was deafening. The flag, which had flown over so much pain and loss, still stood for life, love and the hope of our nation. There are few times in any life when the emotion of the moment is all that exists. That night time stood still. As our national anthem rang out -- like never before -- I stood there holding that flag, the symbol of everything our country had ever been through, with tears streaming down my face. That moment came under the leadership of Mitt Romney and it not only inspired me, but it inspired all of Team USA, and we went on to win a record number of medals. Today our country is struggling. But the right leaders can inspire us to push on, to overcome seemingly insurmountable challenges and to accomplish great things. Mitt Romney is that kind of leader. Thank you and God bless!
Ted and Pat Oparowski,Good evening, folks. My wife and I are people of modest means. I made my living as a professional firefighter for 27 years. Prior to moving to Randolph, Vermont, we lived in Medford, Massachusetts. It was there where we met Mitt Romney and his family. It has been over 30 years since we lost our son, David. The memories are still vivid and painful. But we wanted to share them with you because David's story is part of Mitt's story. And America deserves to hear it. Back in the early 1970s, Mitt visited our home numerous times with his oldest son, Tagg, tagging along. He was in the vanguard of our support system when we received the news that no parent is prepared to confront. You cannot measure a man's character based on words he utters before adoring crowds during happy times. The true measure of a man is revealed in his actions during times of trouble. The quiet hospital room of a dying boy, with no cameras and no reporters - that is the time to make an assessment. In 1979, tragedy struck our family when our youngest son, David, age 14, was diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Over a period of seven months, he was in and out of Children's Hospital in Boston for treatment. Throughout that agonizing period, Mitt took time from his busy schedule to visit David. They developed a loving friendship. On one of his visits, Mitt discovered that David was very fond of fireworks. He went out and bought a box full of "BIG TIME" fireworks that had to sit on the closet shelf because they couldn't be set off in the city. We waited until we were able to go to Ogunquit, Maine, where we set them off on the sand dunes - with permission from the fire and police departments. Through that simple but thoughtful gift, Mitt brought joy to a young boy who hadn't experienced any for too long. He also gave the rest of us a welcome release. On another visit, David, knowing Mitt had gone to law school at Harvard, asked Mitt if he would help him write a will. He had some prized possessions he wanted to make sure were given to his closest friends and family. The next time Mitt went to the hospital, he was equipped with his yellow legal pad and pen. Together, they made David's will. That is a task that no child should ever have to do. But it gave David peace of mind. So, after David's death, we were able to give his skate board, his model rockets, and his fishing gear to his best friends. He also made it clear that his brother, Peter, should get his Ruger 22 rifle. How many men do you know would take the time out of their busy lives to visit a terminally ill 14 year old and help him settle his affairs? David also helped us plan his funeral. He wanted to be buried in his Boy Scout uniform. He wanted Mitt to pronounce his eulogy. Mitt was there to honor that request. We will be ever grateful to Mitt for his love and concern.
Pam Finlayson,In 1982, my husband Grant and I moved from California to Massachusetts, with our newborn son. Being a church-going family, we looked for the nearest chapel and soon found ourselves in a congregation led by a clearly bright and capable man, named Mitt Romney. I knew Mitt was special from the start. We didn't own a dryer, and the day he stopped by to welcome us, I was embarrassed to have laundry hanging all over the house. Mitt wasn't fazed. In fact, as we spoke, without a word, he joined me and started helpfully plucking clothes from around the room and folding them. By the time Mitt left, not only did I feel welcome, my laundry was done! As Grant and I juggled school, jobs, church and family, we grew to love the Romneys. They became role-models and friends, and we were honored when Mitt and Ann regularly trusted us to stay with their five rambunctious - but very loving - sons when they traveled. It was when our daughter Kate was born three and a half months early that I fully came to appreciate what a great treasure of friendship we had in Mitt and Ann. Kate was so tiny and very sick. Her lungs not yet ready to breathe, her heart unstable, and after suffering a severe brain hemorrhage at three days old, she was teetering on the very edge of life. As I sat with her in intensive care, consumed with a mother's worry and fear, dear Mitt came to visit and pray with me. As our clergy, he was one of few visitors allowed. I will never forget that when he looked down tenderly at my daughter, his eyes filled with tears, and he reached out gently and stroked her tiny back. I could tell immediately that he didn't just see a tangle of plastic and tubes; he saw our beautiful little girl, and he was clearly overcome with compassion for her. During the many months Kate was hospitalized, the Romneys often cared for our two-year old son, Peter. They treated him like one of their own, even welcoming him to stay the night when needed. When Thanksgiving rolled around, Kate was still struggling for life. Brain surgery was scheduled, and the holiday was the furthest thing from our minds. I opened my door to find Mitt and his boys, arms loaded with a Thanksgiving feast. Of course we were overcome. When I called to thank Ann, she sweetly confessed it had been Mitt's idea, that most of the cooking and chopping had been done by him. She and the boys had just happily pitched in. Eventually we moved from Boston. Our daughter Kate grew into an amazing girl of faith and love. But complications of her birth remained with her, and after 26 years of both miracles and struggle, she passed away just a year and a half ago. In the midst of making the final decision to run for President - which had to be the most difficult of their lives - when they heard of Kate's passing, both Mitt and Ann paused, to personally reach out to extend us sympathy, and express their love. It seems to me when it comes to loving our neighbor, we can talk about it, or we can live it. The Romney's live it every single day. When the world looks at Mitt Romney, they see him as the founder of a successful business, the leader of the Olympics, or a Governor. When I see Mitt, I know him to be a loving father, man of faith and caring and compassionate friend. It is with great excitement and a renewed hope, to know that our country will be blessed as it is led by a man who is not only so accomplished and capable, but who has devoted his entire life quietly serving others. That man is Mitt Romney.
Paul Ryan,Mr. Chairman, delegates, and fellow citizens: I am honored by the support of this convention for vice president of the United States. I accept the duty to help lead our nation out of a jobs crisis and back to prosperity - and I know we can do this. I accept the calling of my generation to give our children the America that was given to us, with opportunity for the young and security for the old - and I know that we are ready. Our nominee is sure ready. His whole life has prepared him for this moment - to meet serious challenges in a serious way, without excuses and idle words. After four years of getting the runaround, America needs a turnaround, and the man for the job is Governor Mitt Romney. I'm the newcomer to the campaign, so let me share a first impression. I have never seen opponents so silent about their record, and so desperate to keep their power. They've run out of ideas. Their moment came and went. Fear and division are all they've got left. With all their attack ads, the president is just throwing away money - and he's pretty experienced at that. You see, some people can't be dragged down by the usual cheap tactics, because their ability, character, and plain decency are so obvious - and ladies and gentlemen, that is Mitt Romney. For my part, your nomination is an unexpected turn. It certainly came as news to my family, and I'd like you to meet them: My wife Janna, our daughter Liza, and our boys Charlie and Sam. The kids are happy to see their grandma, who lives in Florida. There she is - my Mom, Betty. My Dad, a small-town lawyer, was also named Paul. Until we lost him when I was 16, he was a gentle presence in my life. I like to think he'd be proud of me and my sister and brothers, because I'm sure proud of him and of where I come from, Janesville, Wisconsin. I live on the same block where I grew up. We belong to the same parish where I was baptized. Janesville is that kind of place. The people of Wisconsin have been good to me. I've tried to live up to their trust. And now I ask those hardworking men and women, and millions like them across America, to join our cause and get this country working again. When Governor Romney asked me to join the ticket, I said, "Let's get this done" - and that is exactly, what we're going to do. President Barack Obama came to office during an economic crisis, as he has reminded us a time or two. Those were very tough days, and any fair measure of his record has to take that into account. My home state voted for President Obama. When he talked about change, many people liked the sound of it, especially in Janesville, where we were about to lose a major factory. A lot of guys I went to high school with worked at that GM plant. Right there at that plant, candidate Obama said: "I believe that if our government is there to support you ... this plant will be here for another hundred years." That's what he said in 2008. Well, as it turned out, that plant didn't last another year. It is locked up and empty to this day. And that's how it is in so many towns today, where the recovery that was promised is nowhere in sight. Right now, 23 million men and women are struggling to find work. Twenty-three million people, unemployed or underemployed. Nearly one in six Americans is living in poverty. Millions of young Americans have graduated from college during the Obama presidency, ready to use their gifts and get moving in life. Half of them can't find the work they studied for, or any work at all. So here's the question: Without a change in leadership, why would the next four years be any different from the last four years? The first troubling sign came with the stimulus. It was President Obama's first and best shot at fixing the economy, at a time when he got everything he wanted under one-party rule. It cost $831 billion - the largest one-time expenditure ever by our federal government. It went to companies like Solyndra, with their gold-plated connections, subsidized jobs, and make-believe markets. The stimulus was a case of political patronage, corporate welfare, and cronyism at their worst. You, the working men and women of this country, were cut out of the deal. What did the taxpayers get out of the Obama stimulus? More debt. That money wasn't just spent and wasted - it was borrowed, spent, and wasted. Maybe the greatest waste of all was time. Here we were, faced with a massive job crisis - so deep that if everyone out of work stood in single file, that unemployment line would stretch the length of the entire American continent. You would think that any president, whatever his party, would make job creation, and nothing else, his first order of economic business. But this president didn't do that. Instead, we got a long, divisive, all-or-nothing attempt to put the federal government in charge of health care. Obamacare comes to more than two thousand pages of rules, mandates, taxes, fees, and fines that have no place in a free country. The president has declared that the debate over government-controlled health care is over. That will come as news to the millions of Americans who will elect Mitt Romney so we can repeal Obamacare. And the biggest, coldest power play of all in Obamacare came at the expense of the elderly. You see, even with all the hidden taxes to pay for the health care takeover, even with new taxes on nearly a million small businesses, the planners in Washington still didn't have enough money. They needed more. They needed hundreds of billions more. So, they just took it all away from Medicare. Seven hundred and sixteen billion dollars, funneled out of Medicare by President Obama. An obligation we have to our parents and grandparents is being sacrificed, all to pay for a new entitlement we didn't even ask for. The greatest threat to Medicare is Obamacare, and we're going to stop it. In Congress, when they take out the heavy books and wall charts about Medicare, my thoughts go back to a house on Garfield Street in Janesville. My wonderful grandma, Janet, had Alzheimer's and moved in with Mom and me. Though she felt lost at times, we did all the little things that made her feel loved. We had help from Medicare, and it was there, just like it's there for my Mom today. Medicare is a promise, and we will honor it. A Romney-Ryan administration will protect and strengthen Medicare, for my Mom's generation, for my generation, and for my kids and yours. So our opponents can consider themselves on notice. In this election, on this issue, the usual posturing on the Left isn't going to work. Mitt Romney and I know the difference between protecting a program, and raiding it. Ladies and gentlemen, our nation needs this debate. We want this debate. We will win this debate. Obamacare, as much as anything else, explains why a presidency that began with such anticipation now comes to such a disappointing close. It began with a financial crisis; it ends with a job crisis. It began with a housing crisis they alone didn't cause; it ends with a housing crisis they didn't correct. It began with a perfect Triple-A credit rating for the United States; it ends with a downgraded America. It all started off with stirring speeches, Greek columns, the thrill of something new. Now all that's left is a presidency adrift, surviving on slogans that already seem tired, grasping at a moment that has already passed, like a ship trying to sail on yesterday's wind. President Obama was asked not long ago to reflect on any mistakes he might have made. He said, well, "I haven't communicated enough." He said his job is to "tell a story to the American people" - as if that's the whole problem here? He needs to talk more, and we need to be better listeners? Ladies and gentlemen, these past four years we have suffered no shortage of words in the White House. What's missing is leadership in the White House. And the story that Barack Obama does tell, forever shifting blame to the last administration, is getting old. The man assumed office almost four years ago - isn't it about time he assumed responsibility? In this generation, a defining responsibility of government is to steer our nation clear of a debt crisis while there is still time. Back in 2008, candidate Obama called a $10 trillion national debt "unpatriotic" - serious talk from what looked to be a serious reformer. Yet by his own decisions, President Obama has added more debt than any other president before him, and more than all the troubled governments of Europe combined. One president, one term, $5 trillion in new debt. He created a bipartisan debt commission. They came back with an urgent report. He thanked them, sent them on their way, and then did exactly nothing. Republicans stepped up with good-faith reforms and solutions equal to the problems. How did the president respond? By doing nothing - nothing except to dodge and demagogue the issue. So here we are, $16 trillion in debt and still he does nothing. In Europe, massive debts have put entire governments at risk of collapse, and still he does nothing. And all we have heard from this president and his team are attacks on anyone who dares to point out the obvious. They have no answer to this simple reality: We need to stop spending money we don't have. My Dad used to say to me: "Son. You have a choice: You can be part of the problem, or you can be part of the solution." The present administration has made its choices. And Mitt Romney and I have made ours: Before the math and the momentum overwhelm us all, we are going to solve this nation's economic problems. And I'm going to level with you: We don't have that much time. But if we are serious, and smart, and we lead, we can do this. After four years of government trying to divide up the wealth, we will get America creating wealth again. With tax fairness and regulatory reform, we'll put government back on the side of the men and women who create jobs, and the men and women who need jobs. My Mom started a small business, and I've seen what it takes. Mom was 50 when my Dad died. She got on a bus every weekday for years, and rode 40 miles each morning to Madison. She earned a new degree and learned new skills to start her small business. It wasn't just a new livelihood. It was a new life. And it transformed my Mom from a widow in grief to a small businesswoman whose happiness wasn't just in the past. Her work gave her hope. It made our family proud. And to this day, my Mom is my role model. Behind every small business, there's a story worth knowing. All the corner shops in our towns and cities, the restaurants, cleaners, gyms, hair salons, hardware stores - these didn't come out of nowhere. A lot of heart goes into each one. And if small businesspeople say they made it on their own, all they are saying is that nobody else worked seven days a week in their place. Nobody showed up in their place to open the door at five in the morning. Nobody did their thinking, and worrying, and sweating for them. After all that work, and in a bad economy, it sure doesn't help to hear from their president that government gets the credit. What they deserve to hear is the truth: Yes, you did build that. We have a plan for a stronger middle class, with the goal of generating 12 million new jobs over the next four years. In a clean break from the Obama years, and frankly from the years before this president, we will keep federal spending at 20 percent of GDP, or less. That is enough. The choice is whether to put hard limits on economic growth, or hard limits on the size of government, and we choose to limit government. I learned a good deal about economics, and about America, from the author of the Reagan tax reforms - the great Jack Kemp. What gave Jack that incredible enthusiasm was his belief in the possibilities of free people, in the power of free enterprise and strong communities to overcome poverty and despair. We need that same optimism right now. And in our dealings with other nations, a Romney-Ryan administration will speak with confidence and clarity. Wherever men and women rise up for their own freedom, they will know that the American president is on their side. Instead of managing American decline, leaving allies to doubt us and adversaries to test us, we will act in the conviction that the United States is still the greatest force for peace and liberty that this world has ever known. President Obama is the kind of politician who puts promises on the record, and then calls that the record. But we are four years into this presidency. The issue is not the economy as Barack Obama inherited it, not the economy as he envisions it, but this economy as we are living it. College graduates should not have to live out their 20s in their childhood bedrooms, staring up at fading Obama posters and wondering when they can move out and get going with life. Everyone who feels stuck in the Obama economy is right to focus on the here and now. And I hope you understand this too, if you're feeling left out or passed by: You have not failed, your leaders have failed you. None of us have to settle for the best this administration offers - a dull, adventureless journey from one entitlement to the next, a government-planned life, a country where everything is free but us. Listen to the way we're spoken to already, as if everyone is stuck in some class or station in life, victims of circumstances beyond our control, with government there to help us cope with our fate. It's the exact opposite of everything I learned growing up in Wisconsin, or at college in Ohio. When I was waiting tables, washing dishes, or mowing lawns for money, I never thought of myself as stuck in some station in life. I was on my own path, my own journey, an American journey where I could think for myself, decide for myself, define happiness for myself. That's what we do in this country. That's the American Dream. That's freedom, and I'll take it any day over the supervision and sanctimony of the central planners. By themselves, the failures of one administration are not a mandate for a new administration. A challenger must stand on his own merits. He must be ready and worthy to serve in the office of president. We're a full generation apart, Governor Romney and I. And, in some ways, we're a little different. There are the songs on his iPod, which I've heard on the campaign bus and on many hotel elevators. He actually urged me to play some of these songs at campaign rallies. I said, I hope it's not a deal-breaker Mitt, but my playlist starts with AC/DC, and ends with Zeppelin. A generation apart. That makes us different, but not in any of the things that matter. Mitt Romney and I both grew up in the heartland, and we know what places like Wisconsin and Michigan look like when times are good, when people are working, when families are doing more than just getting by. And we both know it can be that way again. We've had very different careers - mine mainly in public service, his mostly in the private sector. He helped start businesses and turn around failing ones. By the way, being successful in business - that's a good thing. Mitt has not only succeeded, but succeeded where others could not. He turned around the Olympics at a time when a great institution was collapsing under the weight of bad management, overspending, and corruption - sounds familiar, doesn't it? He was the Republican governor of a state where almost nine in ten legislators are Democrats, and yet he balanced the budget without raising taxes. Unemployment went down, household incomes went up, and Massachusetts, under Mitt Romney, saw its credit rating upgraded. Mitt and I also go to different churches. But in any church, the best kind of preaching is done by example. And I've been watching that example. The man who will accept your nomination tomorrow is prayerful and faithful and honorable. Not only a defender of marriage, he offers an example of marriage at its best. Not only a fine businessman, he's a fine man, worthy of leading this optimistic and good-hearted country. Our different faiths come together in the same moral creed. We believe that in every life there is goodness; for every person, there is hope. Each one of us was made for a reason, bearing the image and likeness of the Lord of Life. We have responsibilities, one to another - we do not each face the world alone. And the greatest of all responsibilities, is that of the strong to protect the weak. The truest measure of any society is how it treats those who cannot defend or care for themselves. Each of these great moral ideas is essential to democratic government - to the rule of law, to life in a humane and decent society. They are the moral creed of our country, as powerful in our time, as on the day of America's founding. They are self-evident and unchanging, and sometimes, even presidents need reminding, that our rights come from nature and God, not from government. The founding generation secured those rights for us, and in every generation since, the best among us have defended our freedoms. They are protecting us right now. We honor them and all our veterans, and we thank them. The right that makes all the difference now, is the right to choose our own leaders. And you are entitled to the clearest possible choice, because the time for choosing is drawing near. So here is our pledge. We will not duck the tough issues, we will lead. We will not spend four years blaming others, we will take responsibility. We will not try to replace our founding principles, we will reapply our founding principles. The work ahead will be hard. These times demand the best of us - all of us, but we can do this. Together, we can do this. We can get this country working again. We can get this economy growing again. We can make the safety net safe again. We can do this. Whatever your political party, let's come together for the sake of our country. Join Mitt Romney and me. Let's give this effort everything we have. Let's see this through all the way. Let's get this done. Thank you, and God bless.
Rand Paul, Kentucky ,When the Supreme Court upheld Obamacare, the first words out of my mouth were: I still think it is unconstitutional! The leftwing blogs were merciless. Even my wife said -- can't you pleeeease count to ten before you speak? So, I've had time now to count to ten and, you know what? I still think it's unconstitutional! Do you think Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas have changed their minds? I think if James Madison himself -- the father of the Constitution -- were here today he would agree with me: The whole damn thing is still unconstitutional! This debate is not new and it's not over. Hamilton and Madison fought from the beginning about how government would be limited by the enumerated powers. Madison was unequivocal. The powers of the federal government are few and defined. The power to tax and spend is restricted by the enumerated powers. So, how do we fix this travesty of justice? There's only one option left. We have to have a new president! When I heard the current president say, "You didn't build that," I was first insulted, then I was angered, then I was saddened that anyone in our country, much less the president of the United States, believes that roads create business success and not the other way around. Anyone who so fundamentally misunderstands American greatness is uniquely unqualified to lead this great nation. The great and abiding lesson of American history, particularly the Cold War, is that the engine of capitalism -- the individual -- is mightier than any collective. American inventiveness and desire to build developed because we were guaranteed the right to own our success. For most of our history, no one dared tell Americans: "You didn't build that." In Bowling Green, Kentucky, the Taing family owns the Great American Donut shop. Their family fled war-torn Cambodia to come to this country. My kids and I love to eat doughnuts, so we go there frequently. The Taings work long hours. Mrs. Taing told us that the family works through the night to make doughnuts. The Taing children have become valedictorians and National Merit Scholars. The Taings from Cambodia are an American success story so, Mr. President, don't you go telling the Taings: "You didn't build that." When you say they didn't build it, you insult each and every American who ever got up at the crack of dawn. You insult any American who ever put on overalls or a suit. You insult any American who ever studied late into the night to become a doctor or a lawyer. You insult the dishwasher, the cook, the waitress. You insult anyone who has ever dragged themselves out of bed to strive for something better for themselves or their children. My great grandfather, like many, came to this country in search of the American Dream. No sooner had he stepped off the boat than his father died. He arrived in Pittsburgh as a teenager with nothing, not a penny. He found the American Dream: not great wealth, but a bit of property in a new land that gave him hope for his children. In America, as opposed to the old country, success was based on merit. Probably America's greatest asset was that for the first time success was not based on who you were, but on what you did. My grandfather would live to see his children become doctors, ministers, accountants and professors. He would even live to see one of his sons, a certain congressman from Texas, run for president of the United States of America. Immigrants have flocked to our shores seeking freedom. Our forbearers came full of hopes and dreams. So consistent and prevalent were these aspirations that they crystallized into a national yearning we call the American Dream. No other country has a Dream so inextricably associated with the spirit of its people. In 1982, an American sailor, John Mooney, wrote a letter to his parents that captures the essence of the American Dream: "Dear Mom and Dad, today we spotted a boat in the water, and we rendered assistance. We picked up 65 Vietnamese refugees. As they approached the ship, they were all waving and trying as best they could to say, `Hello America sailor! Hello Freedom man!' It's hard to see a boat full of people like that and not get a lump somewhere between chin and bellybutton. And it really makes one proud and glad to be an American. It reminds us all of what America has always been -- a place a man or woman can come to for freedom." Hung and Thuan Tringh are brothers and friends of mine. They came to America on one of those leaky, overcrowded boats. They were attacked at sea by pirates. Their family's wealth was stolen. Thuan spent a year on a South Pacific island existing on one cup of rice and water each day until he was allowed to come to America. Now both of these men and their families are proud Americans. Hung owns his own business and Thuan manages a large company. They are the American Dream. So, Mr. President, don't go telling the Tringh family: "You didn't build that." When the president says, "You didn't build that," he is flat out wrong. Businessmen and women did build that. Businessmen and women did earn their success. Without the success of American business, we wouldn't have any roads, or bridges, or schools. Mr. President, you say the rich must pay their fair share. When you seek to punish the rich, the jobs that are lost are those of the poor and middle class. When you seek to punish Mr. Exxon Mobil, you punish the secretary who owns Exxon Mobil stock. When you block the Keystone Pipeline, you punish the welder who works on the pipeline. Our nation faces a crisis. America wavers. Unfortunately, we are one of a select group of countries whose debt equals their gross domestic product. The republic of Washington and Jefferson is now in danger of becoming the democracy of debt and despair. Our great nation is coming apart at the seams and the president seems to point fingers and blame others. President Obama's administration will add nearly $6 trillion to our national debt in just one term. This explosion of debt is unconscionable and unsustainable. Mr. President, we will not let you bankrupt this great nation! Republicans and Democrats alike must slay their sacred cows. Republicans must acknowledge that not every dollar spent on the military is necessary or well-spent, and Democrats must admit that domestic welfare and entitlements must be reformed. Republicans and Democrats must replace fear with confidence, confidence that no terrorist, and no country, will ever conquer us if we remain steadfast to the principles of our Founding documents. We have nothing to fear except our own unwillingness to defend what is naturally ours, our Godgiven rights. We have nothing to fear that should cause us to forget or relinquish our rights as free men and women. To thrive we must believe in ourselves again, and we must never -- never -- trade our liberty for any fleeting promise of security. Author Paul Kengor writes of a brisk evening in small-town Illinois. Returning home from a basketball game at the YMCA, an 11 year old boy is stunned by the sight of his father sprawled out in the snow on the front porch. "He was drunk," his son later remembered. "Dead to the world, crucified." The dad's hair was soaked with melted snow, matted unevenly against the side of his reddened face. The boy stood over his father for a minute or two. He simply wanted to let himself in the door and pretend his dad wasn't there. Instead, he grabbed a fistful of overcoat and heaved his dad to the bedroom, away from the weather's harm and neighbors' attention. This young boy became the man - Ronald Reagan - whose sunny optimism and charisma shined so brightly that it cured the malaise of the late seventies, a confidence that beamed so broadly that it pulled us through a serious recession, and a faith that tugged so happily at all hearts that a generation of Democrats became Republicans. The American Dream is that any among us could become the next Thomas Edison, the next Henry Ford, the next Ronald Reagan. To lead us forward, away from the looming debt crisis, it will take someone who believes in America's greatness, who believes in and can articulate the American dream, someone who has created jobs, someone who understands and appreciates what makes America great, someone who will lead our party and our nation forward. I believe that someone is our nominee: Governor Mitt Romney. As Reagan said, our freedom is never more than a generation away from extinction. If our freedom is taken, the American Dream will wither and die. To lead, we must transform the coldness of austerity into the warm, vibrant embrace of prosperity. To overcome the current crisis, we must appreciate and applaud American success. We must step forward, unabashedly and proclaim: You did build that. You earned that. You worked hard. You studied. You labored. You did build that. And you deserve America's undying gratitude. For you, the individual, are the engine of America's greatness. Thank you.
Ray Fernandez,Thank you. These last few months, we've heard a lot of false information about Bain Capital and private equity. I'm proud to stand here - and tell you what I saw - when Bain Capital bought the company where I worked. The experience improved my job and it gave me opportunities that I always believed were part of the American dream. In 1996, I became a sales rep at a contact lens business called Wesley Jessen. My sales region was right here in Florida, where my parents emigrated from Cuba when I was 13, a country, where the government owns everything but nothing works. Wesley Jessen had been struggling - losing over $50 million a year - under the previous owner. Then, Mitt Romney and Bain Capital came in. Bain Capital saw something others didn't see. They invested money in marketing. They brought in a charismatic and dynamic CEO, Kevin Ryan. They did everything to make the company succeed. This is the real Bain Capital, the story the Obama campaign doesn't want you to hear. Because of Bain Capital's attention and management, Wesley Jessen roared back. Workers like me, were inspired by what we saw - and our careers thrived. And when the company went public a few years later, I was well rewarded. With that money, my wife Sylvia, who is a pharmacist, and I started our own business in Hialeah, Florida - Vida Pharmacy. None of this would have been possible without Bain Capital's investment. They brought a vision and commitment to a struggling company. As a result, we are doing what we love, serving our community. We are building our future. Stories like this need to be told. My life today is better because of Bain Capital. Mitt Romney helped turn around my company. I can't imagine anyone better prepared to turn around this country. Thank you.
Reince Priebus,Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Republicans, it is my distinct honor to welcome you to the 2012 Republican National Convention. Here we will nominate Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan to be the next President and Vice President of the United States of America! But first I would like to offer our thoughts and prayers for the safety of all those in the pathway of the hurricane. On behalf of our party, let me extend our sincere gratitude to the people of Tampa. We're just thrilled to be here--and humbled by your hospitality. Thanks to the tireless work of our convention staff and volunteers, this will be an inspiring three days--a convention truly worthy of the next President of the United States. From this stage, we'll hear from some of our party's most inspiring leaders. With us and with the entire country, they will share their stories and our vision for a better future. We have a message for America: Elect Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan, and they will get this country working again. We will restore the idea that every person in America can live the American Dream. We embrace success, and we want everyone to be successful. As we gather here, the nation we love is a country in turmoil. Twenty-three million of our fellow Americans are struggling for work. Families are hurting. Wages are shrinking. The debt is rising. And just to make sure no one forgets that, we've installed two big debt clocks to remind America of Obama's fiscal recklessness. We've seen what Obama and Biden offer. It looks nothing like hope or change. Give them another term, and we'll just get four more years of failure. But with Mitt Romney's experience and Paul Ryan's expertise, we can expect great things from a Romney-Ryan administration. We must send America's comeback team to Washington, so the middle class can thrive--and wages can rise--and our children can succeed once again. Republicans believe American greatness comes from the American people--not from the federal government. But Barack Obama thinks the government is at the center of the economic universe. He thinks that if you started a business, "You didn't build that." Well, how would he know? President Obama's never run a company. He hasn't even run a garage sale or seen the inside of a lemonade stand. So it's time for a President with real experience in the real economy. Mitt Romney will be that President. Barack Obama and his party may be satisfied with attacking the American Dream. But Republicans won't be satisfied until we've rebuilt the American Dream. We will fight for a future where government spends tax dollars wisely. Where every American has the education needed to succeed. Where energy is affordable because America is energy independent, and where the middle class is growing because incomes are rising. We invite all Americans who believe our children deserve this better future to join with us. A victory for the Romney-Ryan ticket is not merely a Republican victory. It is a victory for America. So welcome to Tampa, to our convention, and to the beginning of a better future. Thank you and God Bless you. Let's have a great week.
Susana Martinez,Thank you and good evening. On behalf of the great state of New Mexico, let me express my gratitude for being invited to speak tonight. Growing up, I never imagined a girl from a border town could one day become a governor. But this is America Y, en America todo es posible. My parents taught me to never give up and to always believe that my future could be whatever I dreamt it to be. Success, they taught me, is built on the foundation of courage, hard-work and individual responsibility. Despite what some would have us believe, success is not built on resentment and fears. We grew up on the border and truly lived paycheck to paycheck. My dad was a golden gloves boxer in the Marine Corps, then a deputy sheriff. My mom worked as an office assistant. One day, they decided to start a security guard business. I thought they were absolutely crazy-- we literally had no savings, but they always believed in the American Dream. So, my dad worked to grow the business. My mom did the books at night. And at 18, I guarded the parking lot at the Catholic Church bingos. Now, my dad made sure I could take care of myself. I carried a Smith and Wesson .357 Magnum -- that gun weighed more than I did! My parents grew that small business--from one 18-year-old guarding a bingo--to more than 125 people in three states. And sure, there was help along the way. But my parents took the risk. They stood up. And you better believe that they built it. My parents also taught me about having the courage to stand for something. So, I went to law school and became a prosecutor. I took on a specialty that very few choose to pursue - I prosecuted child abuse and child homicide cases. Cases that were truly gut-wrenching. But standing up for those kids, being their voice for justice, was the honor of a lifetime. Sometimes you pay a price for standing up. When I was a young prosecutor, I got called to testify against my boss. I could have backed down, but I didn't. I stood up to him. And he fired me for it. So I took him on, ran against him for district attorney and beat him by a landslide! I fear some of our leaders today have lost the courage to stand up. What we have now are politicians. They won't offer real plans, and only stand up when they want to blame someone else. And I don't say that just because a Democrat is in the White House. I was a Democrat for many years. So were my parents. Before I ran for District Attorney, two Republicans invited my husband and me to lunch. And I knew a party-switch was exactly what they wanted. So, I told Chuck, we'll be polite, enjoy a free lunch and then say goodbye. But we talked about issues--they never used the words Republican, or Democrat, conservative or liberal. We talked about many issues, like welfare - is it a way of life, or a hand-up? Talked about the size of government -- how much should it tax families and small businesses? And when we left that lunch, we got in the car and I looked over at Chuck and said, "I'll be damned, we're Republicans." This election should not be about political parties. Too many Americans are out of work, and our debt is out of control. This election needs to be about those issues. And it is the responsibility of both parties to offer up real solutions and have an honest debate. In New Mexico, I inherited the largest structural deficit in state history. And our legislature is controlled by Democrats. We don't always agree. But we came together - in a bi-partisan manner--and turned that deficit into a surplus, all without raising taxes. That's not the kind of leadership we are seeing from President Obama. He promised to bring us all together, to cut unemployment, to pass immigration reform in his first year and even promised to cut the deficit in half in his first term. Do you remember that? But he hasn't come close. They haven't even passed a budget in Washington, DC in three years! If he can take credit for government building small businesses, then he can accept responsibility for breaking his promise and adding 5 trillion dollars to the national debt. Because he did build that. As the first Hispanic female governor in history, little girls often come up to me in the grocery store or the mall. They look and point, and when they get the courage, they ask "Are you Susana?" and they run up and give me a hug. And I wonder. How do you know who I am? But they do. And these are little girls. It's in moments like these when I'm reminded that we each pave a path. And for me, it's about paving a path for those little girls to follow. No more barriers. In many ways Mitt Romney and I are very different. Different starts in life. Different paths to leadership. Different cultures. But we've each shared in the promise of America, and we share a core belief that the promise of America must be kept for the next generation. El sueno Americanos es tener exito. It's success. Success is the American Dream. And that success is not something to be ashamed of, or to demonize. There is one candidate in this election who will protect that dream, one leader who will fight hard to keep the promise of America for the next generation. And that's why we must stand up and make Mitt Romney the next president of the United States. Thank you!
Tim Pawlenty,Thank you. Thank you very much. Good evening everyone, and welcome to Barack Obama's retirement party! Four years ago, we came together for this convention back in my home state of Minnesota, and a lot's happened since then. We've had four years of Barack Obama in the White House. Ah, the Obama White House, one bad decision follows another. Hard to say exactly just what his worst mistake has been. There's so many to choose from: The stimulus. His energy policy. Obamacare. Taxes. Joe Biden. I hear Joe's particularly interested in tonight's proceedings. He even thought about coming here to Tampa. And he's taking notes because when Paul Ryan speaks, Joe will finally get to hear what a real vice president sounds like! But you know, President Obama isn't as bad as people say, he's actually worse. The president takes more vacations than that guy on the Bizarre Foods show. And I'll give Barack Obama credit for creating jobs these last four years for golf caddies. Actually, Barack Obama is the first president to create more excuses than jobs! In his view, it's George's fault. It's the bank's fault. It's Europe's fault. It's the weather's fault. It's Congress' fault. Mr. President, if you want to find fault, I suggest you look in the mirror! I've come to realize that Barack Obama is the tattoo president. Like a big tattoo, it seemed cool when you were young. But later on, that decision doesn't look so good, and you wonder: what was I thinking? But the worst part is you're still going to have to explain it to your kids. Next week, Barack Obama will plead with America to give his failed ideas another chance. He's asking Americans to give him more time and more money. Well sorry, Mr. President, but you're out of time, and we're out of money. Barack Obama's failed us. But look, it's understandable. A lot of people fail at their first job. Now, our opponents claim to be the party of the middle class. But Democrats don't understand this fundamental point: it's really hard for people to be part of the middle class if they don't have a job! I know a bit about these things. I grew up in a meatpacking town. For much of his life, my dad was a truck driver. My mom was a homemaker. She died when I was 16, and my dad lost his job not long after that. And I was the only one of the five kids in our family who had a chance to go to college. When I traveled the country these past few years, I met Americans from all different walks of life. If you ask middle-class Americans about their hopes and dreams, they'll share their heart, but also their concerns. Can they pay the mortgage? Will they have enough money to buy groceries, or gas for the car? Will they be able to get their kids into college or pay the tuition? But jobs don't come from politicians. They come from entrepreneurs, inventors, innovators and risk-takers. America's entrepreneurs know taxes are too high, and regulations are too costly and complex. Obamacare frightens them. And they want more American energy. And they're collectively making one common plea. They're saying: I want to grow my business and employ people, but they're also saying this: Just get the government off my back! We need to let them know help's on the way, and help's name is Mitt Romney. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the best candidate. This isn't his first job, or the first time he's been a leader who has produced results. He made a success of failing companies. He made a success of the Olympics. He even made government in Massachusetts more effective and efficient. And now he's ready to help get America back on track and Americans back to work. He has a plan to strengthen and grow America's middle class with lower taxes; a government that works for the American people instead of dashing their hopes and dreams; lower energy prices; and greater access to a quality education for all. There's one other thing I want to leave you with tonight. It's important for America to know that Mitt Romney is not only a great leader, he's also a remarkable person. He's smart, gracious and wise. And he has this infectious good cheer about him - something I appreciate and something America needs. Mitt Romney never quits moving. When he sees a problem, he goes after it and finds the solution. It's that can-do spirit, combined with a lifetime of service and success that convinced me to support him. And it's that can-do spirit that we need in the White House, leading America now. As a former governor, I know that leadership takes optimism, but not blind optimism. We need a leader who understands the depth of our challenges, but who also doesn't shy away from them. Mitt Romney knows what our problems are, and he has the tools, the experience, the energy and the right polices to fix them. After four years of this president, we need Mitt Romney now, more than ever. I'm proud to be supporting him for president of the United States, and I know you are too. And with any luck, in a few months, Barack Obama will at last get some experience in the private sector. Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
Tom Stemberg,Twenty-five years ago I had a crazy idea for a new business. I wanted to do to office supplies what Home Depot had done with home improvement. I pictured an office superstore for regular customers and small businesses. The business would be called Staples. It wasn't easy at first. I had a vision and a business plan. Then I met Mitt Romney. He helped make it come alive. Now Mitt was an unusual guy. He had already enjoyed great success at Bain & Company. But he knew the value of a dollar. When I told him about Staples, he really got excited at the idea of saving a few cents on paper clips. Funny thing. But I ask you. Who would make a better president: Someone who knows how to save a dollar on pens and paper or someone who knows how to waste $535 million on Solyndra? The truth is Mitt was not a typical investor. He was a true partner. Where some saw an unproven new business, he saw a store that could save people money. He recognized that efficiency creates consumer value. He never looked at Staples as merely a financial investment. He saw the engine of prosperity it could become. Today Staples employs nearly 90,000 people. It has over 2,000 stores. Over 50 distribution centers. It is part of a competitive industry that helps entrepreneurs and small businesses get started on their own. For me, as a founder, it was the realization of a dream. So you can imagine my dismay, when I see this White House and their campaign demonizing Mitt Romney. Demonizing Bain Capital. Demonizing the private equity industry that created so many new jobs. Over and over again: Fiction. Half truths. Down-right lies. You have to ask yourself: why would an Administration that can't create any jobs demonize someone who did? I've got a theory. I think when it comes to jobs, new businesses, and economic growth - they just don't get it. They say that Mitt Romney is out of touch with ordinary Americans. They just don't get it. The night before we opened the first store, I asked our people to do back-to-back all-nighters. That's when I got a call from Mitt. He wanted to come over and talk with the team, spend time with them. He told me in very clear terms: This business is all about the people. But this Obama-Biden campaign; they just don't get it. They will tell you that private equity is focused only on the short-term. Tell that to the founders of Bright Horizons Day Care, a company that has transformed corporate day care. Most people didn't give the business a chance. It went for five straight years without making a profit - but Mitt and Bain Capital stood by them. Mitt and Bain Capital believed in the vision. They understood how important it was for women to join the workforce and have on-site care for their children. It was an overdue revolution in the American workplace. Today the company employs over 19,000 people. But President Obama and his friends, they just don't get it. The Obama campaign will tell you that Bain Capital was a form of "Vampire Capitalism." Drain the blood from a company and move on. They just don't get it. Where were they when Mitt stayed with Staples for 15 years - long after Bain Capital had sold its stock? Where were they when Bain Capital helped start Steel Dynamics, when most people had given up on the American steel industry? Eighteen years later that company employs 6,000 people. But this administration they just don't get it. They've got a Jobs Council that never meets. A Democratic Senate that doesn't act. A President who doesn't believe and a Vice President who won't stop talking. They just don't get it. They don't get it because they don't believe in the spirit of the entrepreneur. They don't understand what it means to risk money to create something new. They don't understand the hard work it takes to get a business off the ground. The sacrifices you make, the Little League games you miss. They don't see that this is a country of opportunity, where someone like myself, the son of immigrants born in Newark, New Jersey - and proud of it, Governor Christie - can live the American dream. Well, let me tell you: my friend Mitt Romney gets it. And I could not be more confident in saying that the American people get it. That's why, this November, they will elect Mitt Romney as the next President of the United States of America.
